A standard kitchen-sink tech mod pack. With a bit of exploration. And a tiny
bit of progression. And an artifact hunt quest. But mostly a standard
kitchen-sink tech mod pack.

Also, the sun is slowly being blotted out.

Welcome to Creeping Dark, a mod pack about saving the world. It contains many
of your standard tech, magic, and dimension mods, with a twist. Each dimension
is gated to the tech tree of one of the tech/magic mods. You need to journey
to each of the dimensions, find and kill a boss for a fragment of the key to
the End, combine the fragments to unlock the End, and kill the Dragon to end
the plague that is slowly covering the sky.


Changes from default configurations:
Planets added to Advanced Rocketry
Removed ores from IE: Copper, Lead, Silver, Nickel
  (Will generate from Thermal Foundation instead)
Removed ores from IE: Uranium
  (Will generate from NuclearCraft instead)
Removed ores from Mekanism: Copper, Tin
  (Will generate from Thermal Foundation instead)
Removed ores from ProjectRed: Copper, Tin, Silver
  (Will generate from Thermal Foundation instead)
Removed ores from Advanced Rocketry: Copper, Tin, Aluminum
  (Will generate from TF/IE instead)
Removed ores from LandCraft: Thorium
  (Will generate from NuclearCraft instead)
Removed ores from NuclearCraft: Copper, Tin, Lead
  (Will generate from TF instead)
Aether portal requires skyroot bucket (via Aether config)
Twilight Portal activated with empowered diamatine (via TwiFo config)
End Portal requires end key (via Restricted Portals)
Don't generate dimensional shards outside RFT dimensions (via RFT config)
Created ReCom structures for miniboss dungeons
Added keys using ContentTweaker
Gated Erebus to EnderIO (via Crafttweaker)
Gated Landia to IE (via Crafttweaker)
Gated Hunting Dimension to TE (via Crafttweaker)
Gated mining world to RFT (via Crafttweaker)
Gated deep dark to EU2 tech (via Crafttweaker)
Skyroot can be created using Botania (via Crafttweaker)
Wither drops iron key (via Crafttweaker)
Big Brother drops tin key (via Crafttweaker)
Valkyrie Queen treasure chest contains silver key (via data folder defaults)
Disabled the betweenlands main menu
Disabled the Aether tips
AE2 press tweaks (inspired by ATM3)
Copied AR machine recipes from ATM3, since the defaults are so badly fukt
Created a utility dimension (using rft) to hold redstone mechanisms
Added a new recipe for iron gears (using a stick)
  (resolves conflict with aether rings)
Set EnderIO's protectAgainstEnergyOverflow to SOFT
  (stops explosions from connecting universal cables to EIO device)
  (apparently Mekanism is doing something not entirely kosher with the
  Forge energy API; although this may have been fixed in the current version)
Enabled Nuclearcraft materials to drop from vanilla ores
Now generating the utility dimension from a RC structure
  (so modded block IDs aren't mangulated)
  (Still not sure how to make sure this chunk gets force loaded)
Enabled Iridium generation in AR
Explicitly mapped Biomes O' Plenty biome IDs to not conflict (hopefully)
Disabled /back, /home, /spawn, and /warp in FTButils
Disabled block-o-bones in Erebus, since it overrides TMG

Changes in 1.1:
Added four new keys: Earth, air, fire, water
Keys are dropped as 'fragments' that must be activated with items from
  their respective realm
Earth fragment is in the Erebus, dropped from the Antlion overlord, activated
  with exoskeleton plates, mahogany sapling, and jade at the Botania runic altar
Water fragment is in the Betweenlands, dropped from the Primordial 
  Malevolence, activated with valonite, spirit tree sapling and a wight
  heart with the Landia crafting altar, activated by murdering a squid.
Air fragment is in the Aether, in the slider labyrinth treasure chest,
  activated with a moa egg, golden oak sapling, and enchanted gravitite
  in the Thaumcraft infusion alter, with some Aer essentia
Fire fragment is found in the Nether, in a new dungeon, activated with
  glowstone, a ghast tear, and nether wart in the IE arc furnace.

The quest reward system has been reworked. Instead of loot crates, the
  player will be awarded with currency which can be spent in the
  'shop' quest line. (Taking a page out of Ozone 3's playbook here.)
  Items in the shop will generally unlock as they're discovered in
  the game
Landia crafting altar component recipes changed to not require post-end
  materials (since it's required to access the End)
The silver key is now in the Valkyrie's treasure chest, rather than dropped
  from the Queen herself.
Electrode blueprints for the arc furnace are now craftable. Fuck going on
  hunting expeditions, we've got enough of those as is :P
All quests are now always visible, and will register completed items
  even when locked.
Trash button from Quark only appears on the inventory screen.
  (It overlaps a lot of other UIs)
Disabled the varied chests/bookshelves/trapdoors/etc in Quark
  (Makes it harder to get the 'normal' versions)
Profiled resources for JER
Skyroot sapling is now obtained from conjuration catalyst
  (which is Elven-tier technology)
Hunting dimension frame is now made with a resuable morb containing a
  zombie, and some resonant ender, instead of a TE upgrade

Changes in 1.2:
Added OreExcavaor
Tweaked the Plagued Sky mod. Spread is now hard limited to 500 blocks per
  minute. (Adjustable in the configuration) A similar limit applies to
  decay once the dragon's egg is placed
More meaningful questline names
Dilithium now only spawns on the moon
Added HarvestCraft and Nutrition
Fixed a bug in the HarvestCraft config where juniper berries didn't drop
  from frost gardens
Added JSON files for AgriCraft to support recent plant additions to
  HarvestCraft
Added JSON files for Agricraft to support LandCraft crops
Added LandCraft and NuclearCraft support to Nutrition
Removed a spurious recipe for pizza slices from Harvestcraft
Added missing recipes for HarvestCraft seeds
You now get Harvestcraft items for killing Quarks' crabs and frogs.
  You can craft the harvestcraft items into the Quark items if you need them
Twilight forest venison can now be used in Harvestcraft recipes
Swapped planetary biomes around a bit. Mercury is now stormland (a hot biome
  better suited to a planet like Mercury), while Crystal Chasms has been moved
  over to Callisto (completely arbitrary.)
NuclearCraft thorium and depleted fuel blocks can now be used as heat sources
  for IE's thermoelectric generator. Supercold ice works as a cold source as
  well.
Blocks of valuables now generate in planets. 
  Check the worldgen tab in JEI to find out where.
Added Biomes O' Plenty and Realistic Terrain Gen
  (RTG is still in beta; your mileage may vary)
  Select either BoP or RTG world types in the New World screen to use them
Added JustEnoughIDs (BoP pushed it over the edge)
Fixed a bug that caused garbage to be pregenerated into the spatial io
  dimension (causing pregenerated spatial io units not to work)
Wider variety of blocks for dragonscale to decay into

Changes in 1.3:
Dimensions and mods now must (mostly) be unlocked in a given order. Once a mod
  is unlocked, it functions (more or less) as normal. Quest lines will be
  unlocked as mods become available.
Tweaked the ExtraTiC config so the Trash trait doesn't generate loot with
  invalid metadata
Blacklisted dimension -2 (space stations) from slime generation
Changed the progression for the magic mods so you don't have to progress
  so far in the previous one to unlock the next one
Added a Big Brother drop for the weather wand, to ensure that he always
  drops at least one.
Removed most mob drop changes from ZenScript files and moved them to loot
  table files, since they seem to work more reliably.
Tarantula Brood Mother and Antlion Overlord no longer drop their keys
  directly; they are instead crafted from the eggs they drop.
  (They appear not to have loot table files for me to modify)
The Wither also does not drop its key directly, since it also has no loot
  table (at least in this version of Minecraft). The key is now crafted
  from a wither star.
Due to the above, Big Brother now drops an 'inert' nether star, which can
  be activated by combining it with a regular nether star, yielding two
  stars. This prevents you from skipping the Wither fight.

Changes in 1.4:
The pack has been renamed to "Creeping Dark". ('plaguesky' is still used
  internally)
The 'linear' version is now the only version. The previous linear version
  is now just 1.3.
Added AromaBackup
Added Tomb Many Graves. Disabled OpenBlocks graves.
Added Storage Drawers
Added FTBUtils
Added LagGoggles
Added Controlling
Updated the plaguesky mod: No longer seeds chunks when nobody is in the
  overworld. Also removed a lot of debugging spam output to the console.
Reduced teleport sound volume in Waystones. Also enabled Journeymap
  integration
New logo screen. Now 5% less rubbish!
Some more, higher-tier shop loot. A use for all those platinum
  coins you've been hoarding

Questions:
Q: I see a console message about objects being summoned?
A: That's a redstone mechanism I have hidden away in a utility dimension
that recreates certain objects. You can just ignore the message.

Q: The Blaze boss spatial IO isn't loading or regenerating, or the 
'Swamp Magic' frequency isn't showing up in the entangloporter
A: Apparently my utility dimension gets nuked sometimes. Why? Haven't
a goddamn clue. To fix this, try exiting your world/restarting the server a
couple times. It should get regenerated every time the world loads.

Q: RFTools dimensions don't seem to be generating dimensional shard ore
A: If the base block of the dimension isn't plain stone, ore generation won't
occur. (This is part of Minecraft's own oregen mechanics.) Try generating
more dimensions until you get one with a base material of stone.

Q: The rocket assembler does nothing when I try to scan or build a rocket
A: I ran into this once... try making the structure tower a little taller,
even if it looks like you have enough.

Q: When I try to run a standalone server, it runs obscenely slowly
A: Try adding the 'nogui' option. The GUI really fucks everything up
for god knows what reason

Q: Minibosses aren't spawning when running a standalone server
A: Edit your server.properties and enable command blocks

Known dimensions:
-343800852: Spectre cage
-11325: Deep Dark
-9999: EU2 Quarry
-6: Mining World
-2: AR space dimension
-1: Nether
0: Overworld
1: End
2: AE2 storage dimension
4: Aether
7: Twilight Forest
17: Atum
20: Promised Land (BOP)
66: Erebus
87: My utility dimension
150+: AR planets
1304: Landia
4598: NuclearCraft wasteland dimension
28885: Hunting Dimension


Some notes about the genesis of Creeping Dark:

For some time now I've had the idea rattling around the inside of my head of a
mod pack centered around exploring the various extradimensional realms of the
modded Minecraft universe. At the same time, I got the idea of creating a pack
with a tangible goal -- an actual reason to progress through the various tech
trees, besides "some questbook told me to."

It occured to me to have the End locked away, with the various keys hidden in
the various dimensions. Each dimension could then be gated to a tech mod. A
player would then need to progress through the techcs and explore the
dimensions to acccess the End and kill the Dragon.

And yet I still felt a need for a concrete reason to embark on such a quest. A
tangible reward. High stakes.

I vaguely recall an episode of the Shaft where they talked about a modded
server -- early in the days of modded Minecraft -- where, once the sun set, it
wouldn't rise again until the Dragon was defeated. This piqued my interest.
But perpetually dark worlds are a huge pain in the ass; it's just an endless
spam of mobs.

But then, I hit on a variation on a theme -- The sun would rise and set as
usual... but the sky would slowly be blotted out bt cancerous growths.
Something that would be gradual and more controllable.

That's the moment I decided this was a pack I was interested in playing.

I began making my plans for the pack. I would include some of the most common
tech/magic, and dimension mods (and a few less common), and gate the latter to
the former. Progressing through a teceh mod would yield access to a dimension,
and a key fragment would be acquired by killing a boss or miniboss.

Gating dimensions was fairly simple; Craftweaker could be used to alter
recipes for gateway items. Some mods even had configurable gateways.
Craftweaker also had the ability to modify loot tables for mobs, so bosses
could be made to drop keys.

For dimensions lacking native bosses, Recurrant Complex could be used to spawn
custom dungeons with minibosses -- Usually just a buffed mundane mob with
custom drops. The design of these dungeons were fairly simple -- easy for my
simple mind to handle. Mainly they were built from simple geometric shapes,
made with the help of Worldedit, decorated with blocks from Chisel, and
populated with spawners.

Restricting access to the End was accomplished using Restricted Portals, which
could require a set item to use either a Nether portal or an End portal;
obviously I only used the latter for this project.

Another essential mod was defaultworldgenerator-port. This mod allowed me to
have world data inserted into every new world created. This allowed me to have
a small utility dimension pre-generated in each new world, along with a
Spatial IO chamber, along with some loot tables that Craftweaker wasn't able
to alter.

ContentTweaker was another essential piece of the puzzle. While Craftweaker on
its own can redefine recipes, it can't insert completely new items.
ContentTweaker (an addon to Craftweaker) provided me with that ability, and
with that, the ability to add the various keys to unlock the End.

However, the key feature of the mod -- the plagued sky -- required delving
into the world of mod development. This was perhaps the most difficult part of
the project, since there really is no comprehensive documentation on the
subject. Once you get past the basics of adding items, blocks and recipes,
you're on your own. Everything past that point is a matter of searching Google
and examining existing code.

Thankfully, the requirements were fairly simple -- some indestructable blocks
that would randomly spawn at the build limit, and slowly spread to adjacent
spaces, similarly to how grass spreads. Really, the hard part was figuring out
how to optimize the spread; as it turns out, it's a rather CPU intensive
process. I'm fairly sure the culprit is the fact that the game has to
recalculate light levels every time a block is inserted between the sun and
the ground. At any rate, the answer I came up with was (1) batch all updates
to occur once a minute, resulting in occasional lag spikes rather than
constant slowness, and (2) placing a hard limit on how many updates occurred
with every spread, to keep the lag in check.

One design decision of note is the makeup of the keys. The materials weren't
arbitrary; at least, in the sense that, I didn't make them up. They're
actually a bit of history from classical antiquity: The Five Cardinal Gems --
considered especially rare and precious at the time -- and the Seven Metals
of Antiquity -- the metals known and identified since prehistoric times.

At any rate, I put everything together, gave it a playthrough, ironed out the
numerous bugs, and was happy with it.

---

I've revised the pack a few times, adding a few new features and tweaking the
mechanics a bit.

One of the things I felt was a bit lacking in the original version was, a lot
of content in several mods went unused. At least, not used as part of the main
quest. Things like Jade -- an important material of the Erebus -- or the
various minerals of the Aether, or even much of the Immersive Engineering
machinery.

My answer was to add four more keys. Once again I took a page out of antique
history, and made them the Four Classical Elements. These keys would be
different from the others; the bosses and minibosses wouldn't drop the keys
themselves, but just the cores, which had to be crafted into the full key. I
even went a step further, and had each key associated with the dimension that
most represented its element, and also required crafting processes which
likewise represented its element. It also features another concept cribbed
from antique classification: Each key requires a piece of animal, vegetable,
and mineral from its respective realm.

Thus, we have the water key: Retrieved from the swampy Betweenlands, using
the crafting altar of the stormy Landia, and requiring the sacrifice of a
water creature -- a squid. The air key: Retrieved from the sky realm of the
Aether, and crafted in the infusion altar with Aer essense. The earth key:
Retrieved from the underground Erebus, and crafted in Botania's infusion
alter, requiring a piece of livingrock to finish. And finally, the fire key:
Retrieved from the fiery nether, and requiring the heat of the Arc Furnace to
reconstitute.

I also took this opportunity to add Thaumcraft to the mix, giving the player
even more opportunities for magical exploration. In addition, I revamped the
quest reward system. Instead of questing granting crates of random loot, I
stole a page out of Project Ozone 3's playbook, and gave out currency as a
reward, which could be used to buy raw materials as they were unlocked. Also,
many minor tweaks were made to make the pack a little more user-friendly.

Finally, I tweaked some portal recipes to make them seem more natural.
Whereas some mod packs have altered recipes that felt obviously contrived, 
I've tried to make the altered recipes seem like a natural fit, instead of
being clearly designed just to make the quests work.

I was not entirely successful originally, and feel like I'm not entirely
successful now, but I believe I've improved matters a bit. Originally the
hunting dimension portal was crafted from a Thermal Expansion upgrade kit.
While this certainly made use of the various new alloys and materials
introduced by TE, it certainily didn't feel natural. Instead, now it's crafted
by capturing a zombie in a morb (which seems fitting for the resulting
dimension), and dunking it in a bucket of resonant ender.

Similarly, in the original version, skyroot was initially acquired by crafting
pixie dust (Elven gateway-tier materials) with a plain sapling. While this
feels fairly reasonable, I changed it to something that feels even more
natural: It is transmuted using the conjuration catalyst. This still requires
elven technology, but it fits in well with the existing alchemy catalyst
recipes for changing sapling varieties.
